Usage for ldapcompare:

Perform compare operations in an LDAP directory server.  Compare operations may
be used to efficiently determine whether a specified entry has a given value.

The exit code for this tool will reflect the result of its processing.  If only
a single compare operation is processed, then the exit code will match the LDAP
result code for that compare operation (5 for 'COMPARE_FALSE' to indicate that
the assertion does not match the target entry, 6 for 'COMPARE_TRUE' to indicate
that the assertion does match, or some other result code if an error occurred).
If multiple compare operations are processed, then the exit code will be zero
if all compare operations yielded a result of either COMPARE_FALSE or
COMPARE_TRUE, or a nonzero exit code that reflects the first error result
encountered during processing.

The attribute type and assertion value to use for the compare operations will
typically be provided as the first unnamed trailing argument provided on the
command line.  It should be formatted with the name or OID of the target
attribute type followed by a single colon and the string representation of the
assertion value.  Alternatively, the attribute name or OID may be followed by
two colons and the base64-encoded representation of the assertion value.

The DNs of the entries to compare may either be provided on the command line as
additional unnamed trailing arguments after the provided attribute-value
assertion, or they may be read from a file whose path is provided using the
--dnFile argument.

If the attribute-value assertion is provided on the command line as an unnamed
trailing argument, then the same assertion will be performed for all
operations.  If multiple types of assertions should be performed, then you may
use the --assertionFile argument to specify the path to a file containing both
attribute-value assertions and entry DNs.

Usage:  ldapcompare {options} [attribute:value|attribute::base64Value [dn1 [dn2
[ dn3 [ .. ]]]]]

Available options include:

  LDAP Connection and Authentication Arguments

    -h, --hostname {host}
        The IP address or resolvable name to use to connect to the directory
        server.  If this is not provided, then a default value of 'localhost'
        will be used.
    -p, --port {port}
        The port to use to connect to the directory server.  If this is not
        provided, then a default value of 389 will be used.
    -D, --bindDN {dn}
        The DN to use to bind to the directory server when performing simple
        authentication.
    -w, --bindPassword {password}
        The password to use to bind to the directory server when performing
        simple authentication or a password-based SASL mechanism.
    -j, --bindPasswordFile {path}
        The path to the file containing the password to use to bind to the
        directory server when performing simple authentication or a
        password-based SASL mechanism.
    --promptForBindPassword
        Indicates that the tool should interactively prompt the user for the
        bind password.
    -Z, --useSSL
        Use SSL when communicating with the directory server.
    -q, --useStartTLS
        Use StartTLS when communicating with the directory server.
    -X, --trustAll
        Trust any certificate presented by the directory server.
    -K, --keyStorePath {path}
        The path to the file to use as the key store for obtaining client
        certificates when communicating securely with the directory server.
    -W, --keyStorePassword {password}
        The password to use to access the key store contents.
    -u, --keyStorePasswordFile {path}
        The path to the file containing the password to use to access the key
        store contents.
    --promptForKeyStorePassword
        Indicates that the tool should interactively prompt the user for the
        password to use to access the key store contents.
    --keyStoreFormat {format}
        The format (e.g., jks, jceks, pkcs12, etc.) for the key store file.
    -P, --trustStorePath {path}
        The path to the file to use as trust store when determining whether to
        trust a certificate presented by the directory server.
    -T, --trustStorePassword {password}
        The password to use to access the trust store contents.
    -U, --trustStorePasswordFile {path}
        The path to the file containing the password to use to access the trust
        store contents.
    --promptForTrustStorePassword
        Indicates that the tool should interactively prompt the user for the
        password to use to access the trust store contents.
    --trustStoreFormat {format}
        The format (e.g., jks, jceks, pkcs12, etc.) for the trust store file.
    -N, --certNickname {nickname}
        The nickname (alias) of the client certificate in the key store to
        present to the directory server for SSL client authentication.
    --enableSSLDebugging
        Enable Java's low-level support for debugging SSL/TLS communication.
        This is equivalent to setting the 'javax.net.debug' property to 'all'.
    -o, --saslOption {name=value}
        A name-value pair providing information to use when performing SASL
        authentication.
    --useSASLExternal
        Use the SASL EXTERNAL mechanism to authenticate.
    --helpSASL
        Provide information about the supported SASL mechanisms, including the
        properties available for use with each.

  Processing Arguments

    -f, --dnFile {path}
        The path to a file containing the DNs of the entries in which to
        perform the compare assertions.  If this argument is provided, then
        each DN must be provided on its own line with no other content on that
        line, and there must be exactly one unnamed trailing argument to
        specify the attribute-value assertion to evaluate against all entries
        referenced in the DN file.  If this argument is not provided, then
        there must be at least two unnamed trailing arguments, with the first
        specifying the attribute-value assertion and all remaining trailing
        arguments providing the DNs of the entries to evaluate.
    --assertionFile {path}
        The path to a file with information about the compare assertions to be
        evaluated.  If this is provided, then each line of the file must
        contain the DN of the target entry followed by one or more horizontal
        tab characters and the attribute-value assertion to process against
        that entry (specified as the attribute name followed by a single colon
        and the string representation of the value, or the attribute name
        followed by two colons and a base64-encoded representation of the
        value).
    --followReferrals
        Attempt to follow any referrals encountered during compare processing.
    --useAdministrativeSession
        Use an administrative session to process all operations using a
        dedicated pool of worker threads.  This may be useful when trying to
        diagnose problems in a server that is unresponsive because all normal
        worker threads are busy processing other requests.
    -c, --continueOnError
        Continue processing even if there are errors.
    -n, --dryRun
        Indicate which compare assertions would be processed, but do not
        actually send them to the server.

  Bind Control Arguments

    --bindControl {oid}[:{criticality}[:{stringValue}|::{base64Value}]]
        Include the indicated control in all bind requests used to authenticate
        to the server.
    -E, --authorizationIdentity
        Include the authorization identity request control (as described in RFC
        3829) in all bind requests.  If this control is included, a successful
        bind result should include the authorization identity assigned to the
        connection.
    --usePasswordPolicyControl
        Include the password policy request control (as described in
        draft-behera-ldap-password-policy) in all bind requests.  If this
        control is included, the bind result may include additional information
        about the target user's password policy state.
    --getAuthorizationEntryAttribute {attribute}
        Include the UnboundID-proprietary get authorization entry request
        control in all bind requests to indicate that the bind result should
        include the specified attributes from the entries for the
        authentication and authorization identities.  This argument may be
        provided multiple times to specify multiple attributes to request.
    --getUserResourceLimits
        Include the UnboundID-proprietary get user resource limits request
        control in all bind requests to indicate that a successful bind result
        should include information about resource limits (e.g., size limit,
        time limit, idle time limit, etc.) that the server may impose for the
        user.

  Compare Control Arguments

    -J, --compareControl {oid}[:{criticality}[:{stringValue}|::{base64Value}]]
        Include the indicated control in all compare requests sent to the
        directory server.
    -Y, --proxyAs, --proxy-as, --proxyV2As, --proxy-v2-as, --proxyV2,
    --proxy-v2 {authzID}
        Include the proxied authorization control (also known as the proxied
        authorization v2 request control, as described in RFC 4370) in compare
        requests to indicate that the server should process the operation under
        the authority of the specified user.  The authorization identity should
        generally be specified in the form 'dn:' followed by the DN of the
        target user, or 'u:' followed by a username for the target user.
    --proxyV1As, --proxy-v1-as, --proxyV1, --proxy-v1 {dn}
        Include the proxied authorization v1 request control (as described in
        draft-weltman-ldapv3-proxy-04) in compare requests to indicate that the
        server should process the operation under the authority of the user
        with the specified DN.
    --manageDsaIT
        Include the manageDsaIT request control in all compare requests to
        indicate that any referral entries should be treated as regular entries
        rather than causing the server to generate a referral result.
    --assertionFilter {filter}
        Include the LDAP assertion request control (as described in RFC 4528)
        in all compare requests to indicate that the compare operation should
        only be evaluated if the target entry matches the provided filter.
    --operationPurpose {purpose}
        Include the UnboundID-proprietary operation purpose request control in
        all compare requests to provide information about the purpose for the
        operation.

  Output Arguments

    --outputFile {path}
        The path to a file to which standard output should be written.
        Messages written to standard error will not be written to this file.
    --teeOutput
        Write standard output messages to both the specified output file and
        the default standard output stream.
    --outputFormat {tab-delimited|csv|json}
        Specifies the format in which the output should be written.  Allowed
        values include 'tab-delimited' 'csv', or 'json'.  For each output
        format, the output will include the DN of the target entry, the name of
        the attribute type, the assertion value, the numeric value for the
        result code, and the name for the result code.  The JSON format may
        also include additional fields.
    -v, --verbose
        Indicates that the tool should generate verbose output.  If this is
        provided, then complete details about the result of each compare
        operation will be written to standard error.  If this is not provided,
        then that detail will only be written for operations that include an
        error result or that include one or more response controls.
    --terse
        Indicates that the tool should generate terse output.  If this is
        provided, then additional compare output will be suppressed, even for
        error results and results with response controls.

  Usage Arguments

    --interactive
        Launch the tool in interactive mode.
    -H, --help
        Display usage information for this program.
    -V, --version
        Display version information for this program.
    --propertiesFilePath {path}
        The path to a properties file used to specify default values for
        arguments not supplied on the command line.
    --generatePropertiesFile {path}
        Write an empty properties file that may be used to specify default
        values for arguments.
    --noPropertiesFile
        Do not obtain any argument values from a properties file.
    --suppressPropertiesFileComment
        Suppress output listing the arguments obtained from a properties file.

Examples

  Use an LDAP compare operation to determine whether entry
  'uid=jdoe,ou=People,dc=example,dc=com' has a value of 'Austin' for the 'l'
  attribute.  The result of the compare operation will be displayed in the
  default tab-delimited text format.

    ldapcompare --hostname ds.example.com --port 636 --useSSL \
         --bindDN uid=admin,dc=example,dc=com l:Austin \
         uid=jdoe,ou=People,dc=example,dc=com

  Use a series of LDAP compare operations to determine which of the entries
  with DNs are read from the file 'entry-dns.txt' have a 'title' value of
  'manager'.  The result of each compare operation will be displayed in the
  comma-separated values (CSV) format, with all unnecessary output suppressed.

    ldapcompare --hostname ds.example.com --port 636 --useSSL \
         --bindDN uid=admin,dc=example,dc=com --dnFile entry-dns.txt \
         --outputFormat csv --terse title:manager

  Use a series of LDAP compare operations using both entry DNs and
  attribute-value assertions read from the file 'compare-assertions.txt'.  The
  results of the compare operations will be written in JSON format to the file
  'compare-assertion-results.json', and verbose output about the processing
  will be written to standard error.

    ldapcompare --hostname ds.example.com --port 636 --useSSL \
         --bindDN uid=admin,dc=example,dc=com \
         --assertionFile compare-assertions.txt --outputFormat json \
         --outputFile compare-assertion-results.json --verbose
